# IT-Stock-Price-Prediction
The stock market is an integral component of the world economy, providing an insight into the business level and helping in financing corporations. Stock price prediction is an interesting and challenging task which makes use of historical data along with several statistical methods to shun guess work while investing in the stock market. The role of the IT sector in influencing the trends in the stock markets cannot be ignored as it is the fastest growing and most dynamic sector of all. This paper provides a critical overview of the different approaches employed in prediction of IT stock price including Linear Regression, Ridge Regression, Lasso Regression, Polynomial Regression, and Multiple Linear Regression. In this research we employed different combinations of independent features to predict stock closing prices, namely, 1) Open only, 2) Open and Volume, 3) Open, Moving Average, Relative Strength Index and Volume. The analysis spans different models for predicting a stock price using historical data focusing on different global technology indexes NiftyIT, S\&P 500 IT, and Nikkei 225 along with Stoxx Europe 600 Technologies is performed in terms of 3 train-test splits (70:30, 80:20 and 90:10) to evaluate model performance and robustness with respect to the amount of training data provided. The results of the experiments bring out the forecasts made by each model as they vary from each other, where the selected model boasted a lower Mean Absolute Error of 392.86 and Root Mean Squared Error of 632.12. These results advanced the use of some regression models in predicting stock prices with respect to the IT industry, and also pointed out useful data for select the models in order to predict the financial activities more accurately.
